# Goal 2: "Promote Modernization of the Data-Resources Ecosystem"



##  The appropriateness of the goals of the plan and of the strategies and implementation tactics proposed to achieve them

Goal 2: The overall goal recognized – the need to avoid data siloing - is
absolutely a correct (but difficult) target for NIH. It is impossible to believe
that anything in the implementation or metrics will demonstrably achieve this.
What appears to be one problem is likely several problems, each of which is
worthy of study to generate actionable solutions. Usability is identified as
target to optimize for, and while this may be correct, no metrics proposed seem
to measure this. While there may be real and important distinctions between
databases and knowledgebases, we again suggest no convincing metrics have been
proposed here. The statement that “Funding approaches used for databases and
knowledgebases will be appropriate…” conveys no usable information.

Goal 2: For some reason, objective 2-2 contrasts the “small-scale” datasets
produced by individual laboratories with the “high-value” datasets generated
by NIH-funded consortia. Besides pointing out the needless condescension here,
this kind of contrast actually belies the problem in designing data systems in
which there are various classes of “citizenship.” Treating the much larger
quantity of data generated by the plurality of extramural investigators as
somehow different my lead to policies which work for the NIH, but don’t work for
the community, leading to irreconcilable standards.

Goal 2: Implementation tactics proposed are bewilderingly lazy. Under this
subheading appears the bullet “Ensure privacy and security.” While it is
gratifying that the word privacy finally appears 11 pages into this 26-page
document, but this is not a tactic and transgresses the bounds of sense.  

Goal 2: Evaluation metrics are horrific. Quantity of datasets and funded
databases does nothing more than account for the fact that NIH spent money.

## Opportunities for NIH to partner in achieving these goals

Goal 2: ASAPbio, Force 11, Open Science Framework, Zonodo, FigShare, BiorXiv,
and many other community-driven organization are exploring data lifecycle issues
and metrics that are relevant to this discussion. The entire SPDS needs to be
completely reconceived to include representation from individuals within these
organizations who have scholarly reputations in data management and life science publication/communication.

##  Additional concepts that should be included in the plan

Goal 2: Conceptually, this goal needs to clearly differentiate technological
obstacles from process obstacles. In reality, many of the needed technologies
are either in place or will be generated from sectors outside of biomedicine.
A few, perhaps, will be unique to the NIH use cases. More effort needs to be
put into understanding the workflows and processes that investigators in a
variety of contexts use to produce and consume data. This is an unaddressed
research question in this document.

## Performance measures and milestones that could be used to gauge the success of elements of the plan and inform course corrections

Goal 2: Without specific research questions, or the identification of relevant
research that can be directly applied to the use cases NIH wants to advance,
there are no additional milestones except a clearer definition of the goal.

## Any other topic the respondent feels is relevant for NIH to consider in developing this strategic plan
